---
title: An Afternoon in Xela
layout: default
category: remembering
meta: The day I stopped listening for the voice of God inside my head.
---

Alejandro had a crooked thumb. Lanky. I ran into him in an alley, standing on the cobblestones. It was a small city but I was struck by it, the coincidence. I wondered if I had been drawn there by the Voice.

My mind raced like that, all the time. I'd be walking and a corner would arrive and at the last split second possible I'd decide which way. And then I'd wonder, if the Voice had told me.

In Bible studies there were always stories of the Voice. It wasn't you, it lived inside of you and through you. Sometimes when you spoke it was really it speaking, and sometimes your thoughts were its too.

There wasn't any hocus pocus to it, that's just how it was. You were a child and when your father wanted to speak through you, there you were, waiting for it. And then ready to talk about it at the next Bible study.

Well this day was different because I was closer to an edge I suppose. Half mad I felt, wondering always about Voices. So with a little snap that was really easier than it should have been I stopped asking about the Voice and just said enough with it it's just me. Sometimes things snap like that I guess. There's some build-up that you can't see and then one day it's different, all different.

It wasn't the full end of God yet for me but it was a start, it stopped a lot of circles from spinning in my head right there.

So Alejandro was just a friend I knew through a friend and we chatted for a few minutes and I kept walking and that's all. No voice that day and never after.